---
title: "Introduction"
date: 2020-05-18T00:00:00+09:00
---

Back in 2016, I bought a 40 year old house in Tokyo, after which I spent a year rebuilding most of the first storey.

A lot of the things I had originally planned weren't very well thought out nor executed. Having had a few years to think things through and watching lots of YouTube videos, I now have a much better idea of what I'm planning on doing.

## What is the current situation?

TODO: image of current floor plan

My plan back then was that I would complete my rebuild of the first storey while living in the second storey. Therefore the second storey is where my living spaces are. Namely, my bedroom, office and snowboard gear room. On the first storey, there's a combined kitchen/living room and a room where I've stored all the leftover materials from the original rebuild.

## What's the new plan?

Here's a non-exhaustive list of several things I'd like to redo on the first storey.

- clean, sound proofed ceilings instead of the printed veneer plywood currently used
- fix the weird pillar where the closet used to be in the studio room
- fix the crooked fusuma frames of the studio roo
- moving the kitchen counter against the north side wall
- replace with a system kitchen from IKEA
- move the washing machine into the changing room
- add a partition wall between the living room/kitchen and the hallway
- extend the toilet area into the storage room
- fix the genkan entrance

The descriptions are vague because the list would be endlist if I were to list every single thing. If I were to sum it my, my immediate goal is to 'complete' the first storey, so that I can move downstairs and begin work upstairs. My plans for the second storey are a larger, though even more vague

- remove all the walls so that I can change room layouts
- remove the ceiling
- add insulation and interior walls to the 'above-ceiling' area
- build a mezzanine/loft area

> my immediate goal is to 'complete' the first storey

I don't have a timeline for any kind of fixed schedule in mind, but I'd like to 'complete' the first storey in 2020. If possible, I'd like to complete at least the studio room before summer begins, that means sometime around end June. Because the second storey gets really hot in the summer while the first storey is surprisingly cool. I can actually feel the transition from cool to hot while going up the stairs.

In my next post, I'll explain some of the prep work I've already done, my design inspirations and some of the sketches I've made.
