---
title: "Kakishibu and frame installation"
date: 2020-08-08T00:00:00+09:00
tags: ["work log"]
---

TODO: photo of installed frames

Today, I secured the frames to the posts then added 2 coats of kakishibu, a traditional Japanese finishing extracted from persimmons that is said to be strong against weather rot and insects.

TODO: photo of kakishibu bottle

I got this bottle about 5 years ago then I used on some door frames. When left to dry, it hardens into a thin film. The hardness of this film is what prevents insects, mainly termites from eating into the wood while also providing water proofing.

### Unfinished business

I had also planned to add some horizontal blocks along the studs to provide additional backing for the planned plywood walls. The problem was that I hadn't properly decided on how to mount the plywood. I knew that I would mount them horizontally in a north-south direction so the grain would natch the direction of the floorboards. What I hadn't decided was how they would be stacked.

The height from floor to ceiling is somewhere around 2600mm, or 2.6 metres. I say somewhere, because the floor isn't straight. Yes, I was the one that installed the floor back in 2016. Anyway. Because the floor isn't straight, simply stacking them on top of each other would cause the 1820mm x 910mm panels to go out of alignment. It's not a very hard problem to solve. Simply start from the wherever the ceiling will be, then measure 910mm x 3 downwards and trim the excess off the bottom panel.

It's easy now, but I was suffering from severe heat fatigue at that moment in time and couldn't think straight. I could only manage about half an hour of work downstairs in the heat before I had to retreated back to my air conditioned home office to cool off and recover. The back and off simply meant I lacked the mental capacity to work out the solution, something I only thought off the next night.
